#DESC_RACE_Austria
^
^
^influence and rule further into Germany.  The result was the Thirty Years' War, in which the great powers of Europe took advantage of religious strife 
to expand their influence.  Austria did not do well in the end, and lost territory and huge amounts of money in the war and ensuing treaty.
^    Austria continued to play a major role in European and world politics through the nineteenth century, attempting to slow the rise of Prussia in Germany, 
and acting as a key member of the coalition opposing Napoleon.  The Austrian army adopted the style and dress of the Hungarian light cavalry, and these 
fast, deadly horsemen came to be known as {hussars}.  Hussars quickly became part of virtually every European army's order of battle, and some still fight today.
^    Since 1700 Austria has been (and remains) a focal point of European culture and learning.  History's greatest composer, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, created his works 
for the Austrian emperor.  The Vienna Circle, an influential group of philosophers and mathematicians, sparked the "logical positivist" movement, which sought to unify philosophy with 
natural science.  At the same time, the economist Carl Menger founded the Austrian school of economics, which emphasized qualitative analysis of human action.
^    The first among many of the twentieth century's tragedies began in Austria, with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by Serbian nationalists.  When the Serbian 
government refused Austria's outrageous demands, Austria declared war on Serbia.  This sparked the chain of events leading to World War I, which would consume millions of lives 
and leave Europe's great empires in ruins and revolution.  The Hapsburg empire was no exception, and its final collapse came at this time.
^    After World War I, Central Europe was broken into many different countries.  Austria was ruled by a series of authoritarian regimes until it was annexed by one even 
moreso -- Hitler's Germany.  After a period of military rule, Austria became a full-fledged republic in 1955.  Today Austria is known as a repository of European culture and 
tradition, despite its struggles with its Nazi past; its churches and universities are among Europe's most prestigious, especially in the arts.



