#DESC_GCON_Short_Game_Modes
^
^{Capture the Princess}
^Capture the Princess is a method of scoring victory points. Each player starts with a "Princess" unit. This 
unit has no unit actions and can be captured. The "Princess" unit is immobile until it is captured, at which 
point it moves with its owning unit at its speed. The "Princess" unit starts in the players starting location. 
The goal for each player is to capture this unit and return it to their own capital, bestowing them with 1000 
victory points. You may capture the "Princess" when any unit is in the tile with the "Princess" and executes the 
"Capture" unit action. Once captured, the "Princess" unit is spawned again at the original owner's Capital City.  
If there is no suitable city for the "Princess" to re-spawn in, it remains in the captor's Capital and bestows 
another 1,000 points upon that player.
^
^{Victory Location}
^Victory Location is a method of scoring victory points. Victory Location tiles are scattered about the map,
represented on the map by a Victory Location icon. Players score points by capturing and holding Victory
Location tiles. To score these points a unit with a defensive military stat must be in that tile at the end of
all players' turns for that turn. Each turn a Victory Location is controlled, the controlling player gets 25
victory points. In single player mode, the starting location of each player is designated a Victory Location.
Any terrain improvement, including cities, can be built on a Victory Location tile.
^
^{Reverse Capture the Flag}
^Reverse Capture the Flag is a new method of scoring victory points. This condition cannot be enabled for a random
map game; it can only be used in a custom-made scenario. When in effect, one or more Victory Units (which might
look like a "Holy Relic") will be present on the map. Like a "Princess" unit, a "Holy Relic" can only be
transported by another unit. When the Victory Unit is delivered to a Victory Location (see above), the player
scores a substantial amount of victory points.


