#DESC_RACE_Arabs
^
^
^Caliph, Abu Bakr suppressed tribal, political, and religious uprisings, known as the Rida Wars, and brought central 
Arabia under Muslim control.  These wars caused high casualties among the Islamic community, but through them, 
Abu Bakr not only ensured the survival of Islam, but also established himself as the undisputed leader of the entire 
Arabian Peninsula. By undertaking direct expansion from Arabia into Iraq and Syria, he began the Muslim conquests 
otherwise known as 'Jihad'.  Aside from Iraq and Syria these conquests penetrated regions including Anatolia, Nubia, 
Libya, and Iran.  While early Muslim forces consisted of very few soldiers, it's understood that they retained higher 
morale and mobility than their enemies, as well as the luxury to retreat into the desert where they alone knew the 
location of water and grazing land.  The one military unit that was present in nearly all of the Arabic expansion of 
the 7th to 9th centuries was the {Ansar Warrior}.  These warriors participated as infantry, but most commonly rode on 
horseback.  The quality of the Arabian horses quickly led to these soldiers dominating the battlefield, making ample 
use of their array of weaponry, which consisted of javelins, a sword, as well as bow and arrows.  Jihad is the only 
type of war legitimized by Islam, yet the word itself is still misunderstood by Westerners.  'Holy War' is the 
often-used misleading translation of Jihad, which in fact is meant to consist of an individual's or a communal 
'struggle' against evil, within one's self, and in order to protect Islam, but never as a tool for conversion.
^    Traditional Arab values have since been modified in the 20th century through the combined pressures of 
urbanization, industrialization, and Western influences.  While urban Arabs still tend to identify themselves 
more by nationality than by tribe, village farmers revere the pastoral nomad's romantic way of life and claim a 
kinship with the great desert tribes of the past.  As heirs to the ancient Egyptians, Babylonians, Persians, 
Hebrews, even to the Greeks and Indians, the societies created by Muslims bridge time and space.  The original 
Arab tribes in less than 20 years after Muhammad's death defeated the Byzantine and Persian empires, occupied a 
vast territory from Libya to Persia, and then developed into the Arab, or Islamic, Empire known today.


