#DESC_RACE_Koreans
^
^
^would impact virtually every sector of Korean society.  Korean agriculture prospered as farming technology advanced.  
The cultivation of special crops such as tobacco and ginseng became possible, providing new and profitable trade products 
which consequently improved the standard of living for peasants drastically.  The government began to mint coins and collect 
farm rent in cash.  Markets were established across the country, creating a national trade network.  Scholars switched focus 
from theory and speculation to matters of practical relevance, including the needs of society and state, while popular 
literature and artistic works also came into fashion.
^    At the onset of World War II in 1941, Japan attempted to obliterate Korea as a nation.  Hundreds of thousands of Koreans 
were drafted to fight and work for Japan during the war while the Japanese continued to commit numerous atrocities upon the 
Korean populace.  The Korean provisional government organized the Korean Restoration Army to fight alongside Allied forces in 
China until August of 1945, when Japan surrendered.
^    The end of Japanese rule caused great political confusion among the liberated Korean population. The U.S. and the U.S.S.R. 
supervised the permanent removal of Japanese forces and government from Korea, dividing it along the 38th parallel and sharing 
the task.  The Soviet army, however, was accompanied by a group of expatriated Korean Communists who were placed into key 
positions of power.  The Soviet Union installed a Communist-controlled government in the North, which adopted the political 
structure of the Soviet Union.  This new agency became the only lawful Korean government recognized by the U.S.S.R, essentially 
declaring war upon South Korea.  South Korea was largely unprepared to resist a total invasion; aware of this, the U.S. 
Congress approved monetary and military aid to support South Korea.  The resulting war lasted for approximately three years, but 
in that time over two-fifths of Korea's industrial facilities, and one-third of its homes were destroyed.  On July 27, 1953 an 
armistice was arranged establishing a cease-fire and a demilitarized zone between the two Korean factions, which still exists 
today.


